Hello everybody and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to add multiple cameras to our scene.
The great benefit of having that is you can set up multiple shots and later on we'll learn how to set
up different camera properties as well.
So the shots really do look distinctive as you can see here.
I'm just flicking between two separate renders that I've done and before what we've just simply done
is move the camera to a new position and done another render.
But sometimes you'll want the cameras in a very specific location.
And with that in mind let's find out more.
OK so we shall start off here with a default blend scene nice and simple we can see the three objects
in it.
If we press the number pad zero that will move round so we can actually see the view of our active camera.
Now we do only have one camera in our scene at the moment.
Now you've probably noticed when we've been adding objects into our scene that one of the objects you
can add is a camera.
Of course you can duplicate one that already exists.
If you want to inherit some properties and if we add another camera into our scene we can see this is
camera 0 0 1 in the outliner.
Now of course we will want to rename those cameras at some point something more appropriate.
But for the moment let's whiz out and see where the cameras have been placed.
Okay.
So it's kind of in the same position as before but facing within our cube.
Now of course we can move that around like any other camera.
However if we press the numpad zero we're not looking through that camera.
How do we do that.
Well what we do is we go to the View menu and with a camera selected that we want to be the active camera
go down to cameras and set active objects as camera.
There we go.
We're now looking through that second camera only you shift and the grave key to just move around to
a different position on our cube and what we can now do is go ahead and render from that of a position.
Now I'm going to add something else to the scene.
Otherwise it's going to be pretty difficult to work out which side we're looking at our model from.
There we go.
Now if we press F12 to do  a render it will look like that.
And if we switch slots from slot 1 to slot to close my render window then select the other camera.
And this time just go control and zero.
We should set that as the active camera and then we can press F12 again and we'll get another render
and then we can switch between those two renders with the one and two keys on the top of the keyboard.
Pretty useful.
So now we can review multiple angles of our model very very quickly.
Now another thing that you might be doing is looking at your scene from a slightly different angle.
Let's say you're looking at it from over here and you want to move the camera from where it currently
is to exactly where you are.
And you can do that with control, Alt and the numpad zero.
And we can see that the cameras removed from all the way over there to here.
And then of course because we're now looking through the camera we may have to tweak its ever so slightly
because it won't have the same properties as the viewport itself.
That would change dramatically as we move forward.
Now we can render out from multiple cameras at the same time.
However that's a little bit more involved and we won't be covering that in this section but armed with
that knowledge it's time for your challenge okay.
So your challenge is to set up three cameras in your chess scene render out to multiple slots on the
render view and then finally share your views with the rest of us.
Pause the video now and give it a go OK everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and set up three cameras and render those views so the first thing to do of course
is go to our chess scene with that's open.
I'm going to simply need it.
Well I'd say simply my camera is hidden at the moment so let's go ahead and turn that on.
I'm going to duplicate my camera and I'm going to turn snapping off for the moment and duplicate it
again.
So I have camera camera 001 and cameras 002
So I'm going to go near and far as my two camera types.
So I'm gonna make sure I've got the near camera selected.
I'm going to need to turn it on and then switch to it being the active camera.
So if it's selected control and zero and then we can move it's about.
Now this is not going to be the near one.
So let's move in.
Well that's quite quite vicious the way that's moving.
Move it in a little further.
Now going to have to dial down the movement speed.
There we go.
So perhaps something like that.
And what I am going to do here is I'm going to get my king rotate him on the Z axis slightly so it just
looks a bit better.
The same here with the knight rotate Z.
That just adds a bit more interests of the scene if you can actually see parts of the model Oh and I
think I've just found an issue with the bishop rotating that round.
I think I've left his notch behind.
So if we move him I'm going to look from awful graphic back here.
Yes he is being sliced.
We can see that.
So that this is now the time to really solidify that so let's put him back into the appropriate position
and focus on him.
Yes.
Here we go.
So with it moved back into position we can see that the notch is there we just need to make sure as
parented correctly I'm not going to apply it at the moment I still want to be able to adjust that if
I want to later also need to find my bishop and also the notch the notches aren't part of the bishops
themselves so going to make the notches visible again select this notch here, I can see it's notch 001 okay
and this is the bishop to so notch  0 0 1 I'm gonna drag on top of the bishop black and now it's a parent
and I need to remember to probably keep the transform as well so let's just go back select each one
the parent and I'm going to keep the transform in the menu and I want to do the same over here parent
keep transform.
Okay now I can hide those notches once again and I can move this piece back to where it was before which
I can't remember I think it was just in this one here let's look through the camera again and yes we
got a notch in the scene.
Perfect.
I'm going to do that round slightly so it's not exactly the same as if it had been picked up Okay I'm
liking the look of that camera view.
Okay let's have a look now at the far view so i'm going to set that as the active camera control and 0
to do so because it would be the same as the other one for the moment and I can lift that up to about
here I think.
Perfect.
So now with a three cameras set up and I think I'm probably going to have to do similar sorts of thing
to this bishop here.
Yes.
I can't apply at the moment either because it's a multi user data we'll get to that later on.
So let's move him back to where he was previously and now you can see hiding your cameras can be useful.
I've got them all set up I can just hide them out of view for the moment.
There we go.
Our notch is back.
So we need to find those other notches and unhide them do a tiny bit of parenting and hide them back
away again.
Perfect.
Final thing move this back to its previous position which I think was there.
Okay let's go back to the camera view.
Perfect.
OK.
So I'm going to render the near one out first since it's currently there so i'm just going to press F12
when I go back to my scene and let's have a look the other camera.
So we've done far let's do near next.
So I'm gonna select it and turn it on so I can easily select it.
There we go.
Control and zero as active and render.
So I forgot to switch slots there very easy mistake to make.
Let's go to slots.
So before we do anything else you're back to camera fast that is active render.
Now if the render window doesn't pop up that's because I didn't shut it down previously and there we
go.
We've got vats and also Slot Three and if I come back now I can go ahead go to our original camera control
and zero and F12 to render and there we go.
Now one thing to bear in mind is you can change how the rendering is happening at the moment under display
mode.
We can have full screen image editor new window or keep the user interface.
I prefer it coming up in the new window.
I'm not on a multi monitor setup at the moment but typically I would be and that would just come up
on the other window on the other screen which is always very useful.
Full screen is also another valid one but I find it just gets in the way with my usual workflow.
Okay.
So now we've got all three of those ready and we can go through them with the one two and three key.
Perfect.
So I'm finally just going to save these in my renders folder and there we go.
All saved and ready to share.
I'm really looking forward to seeing how your renders have come on in the next lecture we start playing
with the cameras themselves to give them a bit more interest especially if you're close up or far away
you can actually change the overall feel by adjusting some of the camera's properties and I'll see you
all in that next lecture.